# DAVI Monorepo

## Prerequisites

1. `pnpm` v7.18.2(`npm` and `yarn` are **not supported**.)
https://pnpm.io/installation

2. `docker` & `docker-compose`

## How to setup

1. Create a fork of this repo.
2. Clone your fork installing submodules `git clone --recurse-submodules [your-github-fork-url.git]`
3. Install dependencies `pnpm i`
4. Make an `.env` file in the `dev-scripts`folder (see `.env.example`) and write a seed phrase and deploy salt for hardhat.

### If you're on Linux:

First, do the steps above.

1. Run a hardhat instance

```
cd apps/dev-scripts

pnpm dev
```

2. In another terminal, run the Linux subgraph setup

```
cd apps/dxdao-subgraph

sudo ./setup-linux.sh
```

3. When it finishes, terminate the hardhat instance

## Common Issues and Solutions

#### 1. `pnpm i` fails with `node-gyp` errors

You might not have the relavant build tools for node-gyp to run. Check this if you're on [Mac OS](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp/blob/HEAD/macOS_Catalina.md#The-acid-test).

#### 2. `listen tcp4 0.0.0.0:5432: bind: address already in use`

There's a process already running on port 5432 (usually postgres).

Run

```
sudo lsof -i :5432
```

to get the PID of the process, and

```
sudo kill -9 [PID]
```

to terminate it.

### 3. If you're on Linux and get this error

```
dxdao-subgraph:dev: ✖ Failed to deploy to Graph node http://127.0.0.1:8020/: subgraph validation error: [the specified block must exist on the Ethereum network]
dxdao-subgraph:dev: error Command failed with exit code 1.
dxdao-subgraph:dev: info Visit https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/cli/run for documentation about this command.
dxdao-subgraph:dev:  ELIFECYCLE  Command failed with exit code 1.
dxdao-subgraph:dev:  ELIFECYCLE  Command failed with exit code 1.
```

Then there was a problem during the Linux setup. Common sources of this are

1. The subgraph was already running during the setup: make sure there are no instances of the subraph running. Run `docker compose down`
2. The hardhat instance wasn't running while doing the setup: make sure the hardhat instance is running, and only then run the linux setup.



#### 4. Dev script permissions
If you see `permission denied: ./apps/dxdao-subgraph/scripts/dev.sh` you might need to set permissions for dev script.  
```
chmod +x ./apps/dxdao-subgraph/scripts/dev.sh
```

## Development

To run project locally you need to compile contracts, run hardhat node from dev-scripts, run subgraph docker, create/deploy local subgraph and run davi-frontend. To do this you can do it in separate terminals or run `pnpm dev` from root project. See `turbo.json` for turbo config
##### Option 1:
Running all at once:
``` pnpm run dev ```

##### Option 2
Running in separate terminals:
1. Run hardhat node locally: ```pnpm run devScript``` 
2. Build DAVI graph-client & run dApp:  ```pnpm run davi:build-graph-client && pnpm run davi:dev``` 
3. Start docker containers: ```pnpm run subgraph:compose-up``` (Will require hardhat to be running and docker to be installed and open)
4. Create and deploy local subgraph: ```pnpm run subgraph:start-local``` (graph-node container should be running. Verify with `docker ps --filter "name=dxdao-subgraph-graph-node*" -q | xargs -I {} docker inspect --format '{{.State.Status}}' {} ` before execute start-local)


### Issues:
- We are copy-pasting abis generated by dxdao-contracts into davi and subgraph apps. We need to automate this

### Submodules: 
We are using dxdao-contracts as submodule. Currently it is working under `feature/monorepo-setup-w-create2` branch. 
After [this pr](https://github.com/DXgovernance/dxdao-contracts/pull/294) is merged we can change .gitmodules config to use dxdao-contracts with main/develop branch
To update dxdao-contracts submodule to latest commit use `git submodule update --remote --merge`
To update dxdao-contracts submodule branch use `git submodule set-branch --branch [branch] dxdao-contracts`